# 🦣 An IoT-Based Frequency Interference System To Reduce Elephant-Human Conflict in Sri Lanka

This project is a Final Research of my Academic. IoT based technologies used to create this. And IoT, Sensors, Mobile Application, Machine Languages, Object Detection used to success this. The main objective of this project is to develop a system to detect elephant along the village border and repellent the elephant. The introduction of new technology devices such as ESP32 CAM, SIM900 GSM Module, Arduino boards, Alarm modules, and machine learning technology offers potential solutions to the human-elephant conflict in Sri Lanka. The system can accurately detect elephants, reducing conflicts and deaths for both humans and elephants. It helps protect property, provides timely alerts, and contributes to decision-making based on collected data. The system is cost-effective, easily deployable in rural areas, and offers valuable insights for future mitigation measures. Overall, the new technology system holds promise for mitigating the challenges associated with the human-elephant conflict in Sri Lanka.

The human-elephant conflict has been a major problem in recent years. The current deforestation and increasing population have wreaked havoc on human lives, property as well as animal life. Rural people need to be able to farm and live peacefully in the villages, and wild elephants living in the forest should also be allowed to live peacefully in the forests. Traditional bio-fences and electric fences are being used to reduce this problem, but so far it has not been successful. This study presents a proposed new system based on new technology to mitigate human-elephant conflict which is currently a serious problem in rural areas. The model will pave the way for minimizing long-standing conflict between elephants and humans using technologies such as the IoT technology, Elephant object detection model (roboflow) and frequency (bee’s sound) and the new system will allow humans as well as wild elephants to save their lives. Being able to know before wild elephants destroy human lives and farms and Wild elephants can be chased away before entering the village. In addition, this method will solve the problem of an elephant train collision, which is one of the most common accidents that can be seen today. Much research and numerous attempts have been made to apply the new IoT technology to agricultural areas. As one of its steps, the main objective of this project is to develop a system to detect elephant along the village border and repellent the elephant.

{% embed url="https://github.com/1234tharindu/An-IoT-based-frequency-interference-system-to-reduce-the-elephant-human-conflict-in-Sri-Lanka..git" %}

{% embed url="https://fhss-sjp-ac.gitbook.io/solution-of-elephant-human-conflict-in-sri-lanka./" %}
